# Moved

The project is now maintained at https://github.com/ShabbyX/libpandoc

All copyright for code in this repository is transferred the current libpandoc maintainer @ShabbyX --@t0yv0.
 
# `libpandoc`

The purpose of `libpandoc` is to make the [Haskell][haskell] library
[Pandoc][pandoc] available for use from C and other non-Haskell
environments that support C FFI.  Pandoc and (`libpandoc`) support
text conversion between HTML, Markdown, LaTeX, OpenDocument and other
formats.


## Obtaining

The latest version is available (BSD license) at [GitHub][libpandoc].


## Installation
 
### Building

Building follows standard Haskell conventions and requires the
[Haskell Platform][haskell-platform]:

    # runhaskell Setup.lhs configure [--user]
    # runhaskell Setup.lhs build    
 
The configure stage may report missing dependencies.  These can be
obtained as follows:

    # cabal install [dependency]

A successful build creates the shared library file in
`./dist/build/libpandoc.dll/libpandoc.dll`.  Installation and use of
the library is platform-dependent.

[haskell-platform]: http://hackage.haskell.org/platform/

### UNIX Installation

For your convenience, an `./install.sh` is provided that installs the
shared object and header files under `/usr/local`.  It has been tested
on Ubuntu Linux.

To install system-wide in the `$LIB` folder, copy `libpandoc.dll` to
`$LIB/libpandoc.so` and run `ldconfig $LIB`.  Also, copy
`src/pandoc.h` to `$INCLUDES/`.
 
To use the library from C, do:

    #include <pandoc.h>
    pandoc(...)

And compile as:

    gcc -lpandoc [my-file.c]

### Windows Installation
 
For your convenience, an `./install.bat` is provided that installs the
shared library under `%windir%\System32`.

Deploy the shared library in the same folder as your application, or
put it under `%PATH%`.  Intallation of header files depends on the C
compiler.


## Using

### C Interface

The C interface is defined in `src/pandoc.h`. Synopsis:

    pandoc_init()
    char* error = pandoc(1024 /* buffer size */,
                         "markdown" /* input format */,
                         "html", /* output format */,
                         NULL /* XML settings */,
                         *reader,
                         *writer);
    pandoc_exit();

Haskell runtime has to be started and stopped explicitly via the
`init/exit` functions.

#### Input and Output Formats

Input and output formats depend on Pandoc version the library is built
against.  They are passed as strings.  Possible values include:

  * html
  * latex
  * markdown
  * rst
  * context
  * docbook
  * man
  * mediawiki
  * opendocument
  * plain
  * rst
  * rtf
  * s5
  * texinfo

In addition, an automatically derived `xml` format is provided for
both input and output.

#### XML Settings

The settings parameter allows to customize the text transformation by
passing Pandoc settings as an XML-encoded string.  The XML format is
derived automatically from Pandoc data type declarations by generic
programming.

Below is a printout of the default settings.  NOTE: it may be outdated
with respect to the current library version.  The custom settings
passed by the user are merged with the default settings, so only the
fields that have non-default values have to be provided.

    <record name="LibPandocSettings">
      <field name="writerOptions">
        <record name="WriterOptions">
          <field name="writerStandalone">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerTemplate">
            <string></string>
          </field>
          <field name="writerVariables">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="writerIncludeBefore">
            <string></string>
          </field>
          <field name="writerIncludeAfter">
            <string></string>
          </field>
          <field name="writerTabStop">
            <int>4</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerTableOfContents">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerS5">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerXeTeX">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerHTMLMathMethod">
            <data name="PlainMath" />
          </field>
          <field name="writerIgnoreNotes">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerIncremental">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerNumberSections">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerStrictMarkdown">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerReferenceLinks">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerWrapText">
            <int>1</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerLiterateHaskell">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="writerEmailObfuscation">
            <data name="JavascriptObfuscation" />
          </field>
          <field name="writerIdentifierPrefix">
            <string></string>
          </field>
        </record>
      </field>
      <field name="parserState">
        <record name="ParserState">
          <field name="stateParseRaw">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateParserContext">
            <data name="NullState" />
          </field>
          <field name="stateQuoteContext">
            <data name="NoQuote" />
          </field>
          <field name="stateSanitizeHTML">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateKeys">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateNotes">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateTabStop">
            <int>4</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateStandalone">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateTitle">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateAuthors">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateDate">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateStrict">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateSmart">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateLiterateHaskell">
            <int>0</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateColumns">
            <int>80</int>
          </field>
          <field name="stateHeaderTable">
            <list />
          </field>
          <field name="stateIndentedCodeClasses">
            <list />
          </field>
        </record>
      </field>
    </record>

### Other Interfaces

  * A .NET/C# interface is available as [libpandoc-dotnet][libpandoc-dotnet].


## Changelog

  * 0.5 - Implemented XML generics to support all config settings.


## Authors

Anton Tayanovskyy <name.surname@gmail.com>.  Bug reports and feature
requests are welcome.



[haskell]:          http://www.haskell.org
[pandoc]:           http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/
[libpandoc]:        http://github.com/toyvo/libpandoc/
[libpandoc-dotnet]: http://github.com/toyvo/libpandoc-dotnet/
